\input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle 3DViewer_v1.0 manual
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2023 geniezan shaerosi
@end copying

@titlepage
@title 3DViewer_v1.0
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top 3DViewer_v1.0 manual

This is a short 3DViewer_v1.0 manual.

@menu
* General information::    This section provides general information about the program.
* Affine transformations::    This section provides information about loading of models from files and applying affine transformations to them.
* Settings::    This section provides information about visual settings.
* Screenshot and screencast::    This section provides information about saving images and gifs.

@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

@itemize @bullet
@item
In this project, a program to view 3D wireframe models (3D Viewer) is implemented in the C/C++ programming language using the QT version 6.2.
@item
The models themselves must be loaded from .obj files and are viewable on the screen with the ability to rotate, scale and translate.
@item
The program can be built with Makefile which contains standard set of targets for GNU-programs: all, install, uninstall, clean, dvi, dist, tests, gcov. 
@item
Installation directory is src/Application. The program can be opened with "make open" or "open ./Application/3DViewer_1.app".
@end itemize


@node Affine transformations
@chapter Affine transformations
@itemize @bullet
@item
To load a wireframe model from an obj file (vertices and surfaces list support only) use button "open file".
@item
After succesful loading of a model the program will show file name and number of vertices and edges above a visualisation area.
@item
To translate the model by a given distance in relation to the X, Y, Z axes use sliders or scroll boxes.
@item
To rotate the model by a given angle relative to its X, Y, Z axes use sliders or scroll boxes (-180 to 180 degrees).
@item
To scale the model by a given value along its X, Y, Z axes use sliders (0.01 to 10) or scroll boxes (0.01 to 100).
@item
To scale the model along all axes keeping original ratio check box "keep ratio 1:1:1" and scale along any axis.
@end itemize


@node Settings
@chapter Settings
@itemize @bullet
@item
It is possible to customize the type of projection (parallel and central).
@item
The program allows setting up the type (solid, dashed), color and thickness of the edges, display method (none, circle, square), color and size of the vertices, the background color.
@item
Settings are saved between program restarts.
@item
The "reset all" button allows to update the position of the model in space to its original position (as in the .obj file) and also set the default settings.
@end itemize


@node Screenshot and screencast
@chapter Screenshot and screencast
@itemize @bullet
@item
The "save as" button allows to save the captured (rendered) images as bmp and jpeg files.
@item
The program allows recording small screencasts by the "gif" button - the current custom affine transformation of the loaded object into gif-animation (640x480, 10fps, 5s).
@end itemize
@bye